Most businesses are still using the same
old content strategies that worked for
them 5 years ago. And yet they're
confused as to why it's no longer
bringing new customers. I've spent 16
years helping brands drive millions of
dollars of revenue from content, from
building startups from scratch through
to scaling global brands. Content is the
most important marketing lever that you
have in your business. Right now, I'm
watching 99% of companies get their
content strategy wrong. And the gap
[music] between who's winning and who's
wasting their budget has never been
clearer. In this video, I'm going to
give you eight content strategies
[music] that will drive attention, get
customers, and revenue. So, let's start
with the one that most businesses get
wrong because it's the most fundamental,
which is problem matching. This is a
content strategy where you talk about a
painful problem that your audience is
facing. Then you position your product
or your service as the obvious practical
solution. But the thing that most people
get wrong about problem matching content
is they don't start with a clear problem
statement. Website homepages usually
start with things like, "We've been in
business for 15 years." Or, "Trusted by
thousands of clients." Or even things
like award-winning consultancy. And on
paper, that does sound impressive. But
to someone that is visiting your
website, it feels really disconnected
from their problem because they didn't
show up necessarily to learn about you.
They showed up because something in
their world isn't working and they're
looking for a specific solution to that
problem. Now, imagine a completely
different opening for the website.
Instead of introducing the company, it
might start, "Your sales pipeline has
slowed down. Deals that used to close
quickly now drag on for months. Your
team is busier than ever, but the
revenue hasn't moved." Now, that is the
same company. It is the same service,
but suddenly the reader is thinking,
"That's exactly what's happening right
now in my business." And that question
came directly from this process. So,
here is a three-step process that you
can follow right now to create your
problem statement. Step one is conduct
20 problem interviews. You're going to
set up 20 to 30-minute calls with your
audience. And your job is to discover as
much as you can about them. Use AI to
help you build a list of questions that
will guide that conversation. Don't try
to test your solution or validate an
idea you already have. Your role as a
founder is to listen. Try and probe into
what customers' biggest challenges, what
they've already tried, and why it didn't
work. You can also ask about how they
would describe it to their customers.
And this information will give you an
incredible understanding of what your
customers really think, and importantly,
the language they're using to describe
your offer. Honestly, this is the most
important step and the hard work that
most founders avoid. Step two, create
your problem map. So, once you gathered
insights from your customers, the next
step is to map those problems across
your different stages of the funnel. So,
what you do start at the top of your
funnel. These are the people who don't
really know you yet. They may not even
fully understand their problem or the
desired solution. So, you have to ask
yourself, "What are they experiencing
right now? How do they describe the
situation that they're in? What
frustrations they talk about before they
start looking for solutions?" Next, move
to the middle of the funnel. These
people know they have a problem and have
probably tried to fix it already. So, at
this stage, you want to be looking for
deeper signals. What solutions have
these people already tried? What's
frustrating them about these solutions?
And what do they believe the real
problem is that's underlying it? Then
continue mapping further down the
funnel, where people are actively
comparing options and considering
different approaches. So, at each stage,
you should be capturing the exact
language customers use to describe their
problem. So, finally, as a quick tip,
use AI to help you turn those insights
into clear problem statements for each
stage of the discovery. And these
statements will become the foundation
for your messaging, for your content,
[music]
your positioning, and ensuring that when
someone enters your brand ecosystem,
they immediately feel understood. Step
three is the problem statement test.
Find five prospects and test the
messaging with them. If they come back
and say, "You know what? That's exactly
what I've been struggling with." Then
you've nailed it. And this is critical.
Now, when you begin creating content
based on the exact phrases
>> [music]
>> and questions that your customers are
actually using, it will show you really
understand what they're up against and
position [music]
your solution as the obvious answer to
that problem. So, once you've got this
right, it will become the foundation for
everything else. But this next one,
every founder should be able to answer.
The next content strategy is called
blank for blank positioning. And it's
slightly different to the problem
statement. So, if you can't describe
what your business does in one sentence,
you really don't have a hope of winning
serious clients. I've used this for
every business that I've started, and
the idea is to connect your offer to
something that your ideal customer
already needs. For example, when I
started my agency, we always referred to
ourselves as a digital marketing agency,
never a marketing agency, and never a
creative agency. Digital marketing is
what we did. And back then, being a
digital marketing agency was a novel
thing. Digital marketing had just begun
in earnest, and so we were
differentiating ourselves specifically
with the first part of our positioning.
So, that first part is what you do,
whereas the second part of the problem
statement is specifically who you do it
for. So, the trick here is to be very
specific. So, we were a digital
marketing agency for luxury brands. And
so, you knew exactly what we did and
exactly who we did it for. So, when you
write down narrow positioning, don't
think about it as limiting your market
size. Think about it as it will allow
you to dominate a specific niche. So,
the clearer you are about who you serve,
the faster you can win. So, to test
whether you've done it right, ask
people, "Can someone immediately know if
they're your customer?" If they
hesitate, the chances are that your
positioning is too broad. So, you need
to narrow it down further. So, the final
step is to deploy this everywhere.
Spread it across your homepage or bio,
LinkedIn, even your email signature.
This sentence is what you will be known
for. So, make it impossible to miss and
impossible to misunderstand. [music]
So, the third content strategy to focus
on is agitating the problem. So, once
you've identified a problem, the biggest
mistake you can make is jumping straight
to your solution. Your audience isn't
ready for that yet. They need to feel
the weight of the problem first. So, the
aim is to make them realize what impact
this problem could have if they ignore
it, and what their business or life
looks like 3, 6, 12 months from now if
they keep ignoring or downplaying this
issue. So, we call this agitating the
problem. The aim is to create a force
that you can fight against and then show
them what they're actually losing every
day that they don't solve this problem.
So, let me give you a very clear
example. When I first set up Searchable,
instead of focusing on how we help
brands appear in AI search, we would
encourage people to ask ChatGPT about
their sector and their industry and
watch [music] as it pulled up issues
with their own brand and also showed
their competitors ahead of them. We'd
then do it again with Perplexity and the
same thing would happen. Then we would
do the same thing with Gemini and the
same thing would happen. They would see
their customers above themselves. So, to
go a step further, we built a free
visibility tool which showed exactly how
many times people were being cited, but
also showed nine out of 10 times their
competitors were outranking them. Then
we just let that sink in. And suddenly,
the problem of appearing in AI search
felt urgent, and our customers didn't
necessarily know how to fix that. So,
not showing up in AI search was the
force we were agitating. So, now, here's
how you're going to apply this to your
business. So, step one is about making
the problem feel urgent and making it
feel measurable. So, don't talk about
what they might lose someday. Show them
what the problem is costing them
specifically right now. So, for example,
chaotic project management is wasting 20
hours a week. That would become 80 hours
a month, nearly 1,000 hours a year. Make
the cost visible so the problem feels
impossible to ignore for a founder. Step
two is show the cost of doing nothing.
Connect the problem to what they
actually care about in their own terms.
That is, for all founders, revenue, team
stability, and time. So, those wasted
hours might mean that your best engineer
leaves, your road map for your product
stalls, or your growth and acquisition
slows. Then show them two futures, one
where the problem gets solved and one
where the problem doesn't get solved.
So, immediately, you've made the problem
urgent. Now, you need a communication
strategy that works [music] wherever
customers find you. This next strategy
is going to go against pretty much
everything that you've been taught so
far, and that's message matching. You
see, traditional funnels are split into
three phases. Top of funnel for
awareness, middle of funnel for
consideration, and bottom of funnel for
conversion. But the problem with this
method specifically is that very, very
rarely do people join that journey
perfectly. [music] Think about it. Your
ideal customer might land on your
pricing page having come from Google.
But if all of your best brand awareness
messaging is hidden on a different page,
how are they going to know that you have
the perfect offer for them? Or you might
have a case study on Instagram. If that
case study doesn't explain what you do
and who for, people will just read it
and move [music] on. And that's where
message matching comes in and why it's
so important to you. So, to help you
implement message matching, there are
only really two things that you need to
understand. Number one, keep the core
message consistent everywhere. So,
message matching means every piece of
content carries your business's core
message, but it's adapted to the
platform it sits on. So, start by
clearly stating the problem in your
customer's own words and acknowledge why
the typical solutions that they've tried
haven't worked. So, this shows that you
understand their situation before you're
introducing your own perspective. Step
two, show the approach, the proof, and
the next step. So, once the problem is
clear, explain what makes your approach
different. Not the features necessarily,
but the philosophy behind how you solve
it. Then support it with proof, whether
that's results, case studies, or
testimonials. And finally, give a clear
next step, like subscribing, downloading
something, or learning more. And every
piece of content should move the
audience somewhere. So, when executed
correctly, someone can land on any piece
of content and understand what problem
you solve, who you help, and why you're
different. So, what can you deliver and
what to do next? So, if you do this
correctly, it will mean that your blog
post should work as well as a landing
page. Your YouTube video should work as
well as an initial sales call. By the
way, if you've been taking notes so far,
don't worry because I've already put
this together into a cheat sheet which
you can download using the link in the
description. Now, you need to start
distributing content. And in 2026, the
only moat that competitors can't copy is
personal brand. So, again, here is the
harsh reality. Whatever you're building
right now, someone with more money can
often replicate what you're building if
they really want to. The only thing they
can't absolutely copy is you. So, your
insights, your personality, your
distribution, and your authority becomes
the glue that holds your business
together. It's your job as the founder
to build that now. Over the last 10
years, we've seen a real shift and that
is towards founder-led marketing. In
2011, when I started my first company,
Verb, I had no presence, no personal
brand, and effectively no leverage.
Every client conversation I had in those
early days was very cold. I had to prove
myself from nothing every single time.
And it was super tiring. If we fast
forward 10 years, when I started my
second company, Lossy, I'd been posting
on LinkedIn for about 18 months. So,
when I announced our launch, we suddenly
had people coming in knowing our story,
why we were building, trusting our
approach, and were ready to work with us
before the call. And then most recently,
with Searchable, I'd been building in
public for 4 years. And when we launched
the brand for the first time, I got
inbound requests from founders who have
watched hours of my content. They arrive
on a call pre-sold on using our service.
It was honestly such a stark difference
than the early part of my career. And
[music] each business has been easier to
launch because I've had a personal brand
alongside it. And that is the
compounding effect of your personal
brand. Every post, [music] every video,
every piece of content builds equity
that makes your next business or your
next product much easier. [music] So, if
you're ready to take the next step into
developing personality-driven content,
you need to understand the three layers
of the personal brand system. Layer one
is credibility. You need to be [music]
actively building something or doing
something worth recognition. In my
experience, it's not enough to just be
theorizing. You want to build from
experience and that is why people will
follow you. So, posts like, "I've tested
three acquisition channels last week and
here are the results that I got." Very
useful. People can see that you've done
the work. Or, "I've helped 50 businesses
optimize their adverts over the last
year." Again, it's showing you've done
the thing that someone can follow. And
that's the kind of credibility that you
need to build a personal brand that
people will listen to because you're
doing [music] it. You're not just
talking about it. So, if you aren't
actively building, what you can do is
generate a level of interest and
credibility by documenting the process
you're going through and what you're up
against day by day. Layer two is having
a point of view. So, everyone can share
tips, but not everyone has a unique
perspective on how the industry should
work. And that is where you can add
unique value. So, part of delivering
unique value is [music] often found in
having a different or contrarian take on
a common strategy. So, having that
contrarian take makes people stop
[music] and think. It earns you
attention and if you repeat it often
enough, it will become an immediate
point of recognition that others can't
own. So, right now I'm building
Searchable and every SEO guru is
claiming that SEO is dead. My point is,
it's definitely not dying, but it is
evolving very quickly and if you're
still just optimizing for Google in the
same way as you did 5 years ago, you are
wasting your time
>> [music]
>> and you are missing out on the
opportunity. And that is a point of
view. It's contrarian and it's
defensible because I've got access to a
wealth of data because I'm building
actively in the space. And that brings
us on to layer three which is strategic
distribution. So, the aim isn't to be
everywhere, it's to dominate one
platform. So, if you're in software
right now, X, Twitter might [music] be
the best point of call. If you're in
teaching, maybe it's YouTube. But for
most people looking to win clients,
honestly, LinkedIn is going to be your
number one platform. So, your task is to
pick one channel and post at least three
times a week minimum. Make sure to
engage for the first 30 minutes to drive
some early engagement and then stay
consistent. So, if you want to build on
LinkedIn, you can check out my full deep
dive link at the end of this video. So,
a quick thing before we continue. This
channel is brand new and 82% of you
watching aren't subscribed. So, I'm
committed to making the most practical
channel for entrepreneurs on YouTube.
So, if you're finding this useful,
please subscribe. So, now we've made it
to the halfway point of this video.
That's content strategies to help you
get ahead on social media. But this next
strategy has been the biggest growth
driver of my channels over the last 5
years and that is education content. So,
most people create content to get
attention, but the smartest business
operators are creating content that
delivers real tangible value. And that
is where this education content comes
in. So, attention content can get you a
lot of views, whereas authority content
gives you credibility and drives
followers and customers. So, when you
teach your market how to think about
their problem, you can shape the buying
criteria in your favor. So, most
founders are scared to give away their
best insights because they're worried
that other people will copy them. Or, if
you give them everything, why would they
pay you for it? However, by teaching
your audience, they are far more likely
to follow you. Far more likely to buy
into your way of delivering the service.
And when they come to need it, they come
to you. So, real companies with real
budgets look for experts to deliver
their service. I shared every detail
about how luxury brands connect with
high net worth individuals in my first
company, Verb, and over 80% of our
inbound inquiries were companies saying
they had seen our content on LinkedIn.
They loved our point of view and they
wanted to implement that for their own
company. So, education is creating
demand. Real demand. The trick to
creating educational content is to
package complex ideas into really easy
to understand formats. So, if you're an
accountant and you can distill something
as complex as corporate tax into one
easy to understand cheat sheet, that
signals to customers that you have a
deep expertise in the topic that you are
sharing. The other important distinction
to make is that not every piece of
content needs to be a net new idea. In
fact, if you can spot an idea that has
performed incredibly well elsewhere,
understand the things that resonated
most with customers about that content,
and repackage it into your own post with
your own intellectual property, you will
find it much easier to generate
high-performing content ideas. So, next
up, I need to tell you about the single
biggest change [music] to content
strategy over the past decade and that
is answer engine optimization. Most
people haven't realized this yet, but
the way that people search for
information has fundamentally changed.
More and more people now are choosing
not to use Google. They're opening
ChatGPT, Perplexity, Claude, or other AI
systems and asking directly about their
business and about their life. Questions
like, "What's the best CRM for my
business? Where can I go for a local
haircut? Which marketing agency should I
hire?" And that means that if you're not
visible within those answers to those
questions, your business is going to get
no customers and no traffic for those
queries. So, in those examples, you
effectively won't exist for your
customers. So, when someone tells me,
"I've been posting content for a year
and nothing has happened," I ask them a
slightly different question. I ask, "Are
you creating content that is
fundamentally answering your customers'
questions? Can ChatGPT or Claude or
Perplexity, can they give an answer that
is based on the content on your
website?" And most people will often say
they're creating content on company
updates, motivational posts, product
announcements. However, you need to
create content that is high quality
enough and deep enough that it
specifically answers the questions your
audience are asking. AI systems are
generating their answers by pulling from
the content that already explains these
things clearly. So, if someone asks a
question about your industry and you've
never created content answering that
question, you have no chance of being in
that answer. You simply just won't exist
in the ether. However, if you have clear
explanations, structured answers, and a
useful guidance around those questions,
your ideas are far more likely to show
up, which is why the smartest businesses
today are shifting how they create
content. So, the first step is to
identify what your customers are typing
in to ChatGPT, to Gemini, to the other
platforms about your product or service.
If you then get a list of those prompts,
so you can see all the individual
questions and queries that your
customers have about your sector. If you
can get those together, your job then is
to create content that specifically
answers those questions. So, in future,
when a customer asks ChatGPT a specific
question, ChatGPT [music] and the other
tools will pull upon your content to
create an answer for them and your
business will get mentioned and cited
because of that. And the companies that
do this consistently become the ones
that people and increasingly the AI
systems turn to first when they're
looking for help. So, the last content
strategy is about creating conversion
content specifically. I constantly see
founders building massive audiences and
really struggling to monetize. That's
because it doesn't matter where you're
creating the content, whether it's
LinkedIn, YouTube, whether you're
creating for AI. If you don't have
conversion content or lead magnets,
you're very rarely going to be able to
pull people off online and social media
to become subscribers and interested in
your business. I've seen people with 50,
60, or even 100,000 followers and yet
they can't drive any worthwhile traffic
to their business. So, to me, the
problem is something called the value
exchange. You want to create a really
high value resource and you might hear
these referred to as lead magnets and
they act exactly like that. Once you
deploy these to warm audiences,
prospects will be giving their email
address to you because they want to get
access to the resource and the lead
magnet you have created. I actually have
a formula for this which is incredibly
simple. So, when I ran a luxury
marketing agency, we created a report
called The State [music] of Luxury. When
I ran Lossy, which was a car home
marketplace, we had a report called The
State of Care. The Creator Accelerator,
we had a report called The State of
LinkedIn. And now I run Searchable and
we have a report called The State of
Search. The one thing that all of these
have in common, other than the name, is
the fact that they are full of
first-hand data and advice on how to
conquer your sector. So, when you use
first-hand data like this, you guarantee
that no one else in the world has this
data. And that is inherently valuable to
people that are looking for a solution
to a problem that you can offer. So, as
well as first-hand data, we package it
up with real strategic advice that
people can take away and implement right
away. And this makes it really shareable
and really valuable as a resource,
considering that it's free. The benefit
to us really comes when we get access to
their email because we're able to put
them into a sales funnel and we're able
to send them more value over time and
convert them to be someone that's
interested in our business and our
product. So, for both businesses and
prospects, this is a real win-win. They
feel like they're walking away with an
incredible amount of free value and you
obviously get the ability to market them
in the future. Now, there are a couple
of other types of conversion content
that you should also really understand.
One is case studies. Case studies are
proven to deliver actual results. Your
case study should be very specific and
show how you helped company X, which is
say a B2B SaaS company who is doing 3
million, increase their pipeline by
400,000 in 6 months using your system.
And then you talk through the process of
how you actually did it. So, on a side
note, I have a bit of a pet peeve with
people who put down case study and don't
have an actual way of seeing who the
person was and how you helped them. So,
make sure that you include their full
name, maybe even a testimonial and a
link to their website so people know
it's an authentic case study. These
eight strategies aren't random. They're
a system designed to work together. Most
founders tend to pick one or two things
to focus on and wonder why nothing's
happening. If you implement all eight in
a systematized fashion, I promise you
will outperform your competitors. If
there's one thing I want you to do
today, it's to go back to strategy one
and run those 20 problem interviews.
Everything else builds from there. And
if you want to go deeper specifically on
how to build a personal brand on
LinkedIn, watch this next video.